# Future content/Archive Update 8

_This page is an archive of past versions of the current page._

_The contents are kept for reference purposes only, and should be preserved in their current form. Do not add new comments here or edit this page._

## Contents

  * 1 Release date
  * 2 Content
  * 3 Progression
  * 4 Advanced Game Settings (AGS)
  * 5 UI
  * 6 References



## Release date

  * **June 13th on the experimental branch**[U8 1]
  * **November 14th on the Early Access branch**[U8 2]



As jokes: 

  * **December 27th, 2022**[U8 3]
  * **March 28th, Yes**[U8 4]
  * **February 8th (no year given)**[U8 5]
  * **February 29th, 2023**[U8 6]
  * **February 30th, 2023**[U8 7][U8 8]



## Content

  * **Update to Unreal 5**[U8 9]
  * Power tower, the power tower will have 3 connections on their top part and 4 on the bottom connector, making for a total of 7.[U8 10]
    * The top connections allow the power lines to be about 3 times the length of a power line between 2 normal power poles.
    * The power tower will be part of a new milestone in tier 4 Expanded Power Infrastructure.
  * Priority power switch, the priority power switch will allow certain grids to turn off when there's not enough power available.[U8 10]
    * The priority power switch will be part of the caterium research tree in the MAM.
  * Parachutes will no longer be a consumable, meaning they will be reusable.[U8 11]
  * The pioneer will move faster while gliding with a parachute [U8 11]
  * While using the Zipline the Pioneer will no longer be interrupted by ceiling power outlets or power tower connections.[U8 11]
  * The Zipline will now be toggled by clicking [](/wiki/File:Keyboard_White_Mouse_Right.png "Right")[U8 11]
  * Conveyor belts and Pipes will now automatically have a support when not snapping to one.[U8 11]
    * The height of the first support will be adjustable like the second one.
    * The validity of the belt/pipe will only be checked when the adjusting the height of the second support.
  * Dismantle filtering, when in dismantle mode, pressing [`G`](/wiki/Controls "Controls") will allow you to dismantle just the hovered type of building.[U8 11]
    * The filter will be reset upon exiting dismantle mode.
    * The filter will also work on blueprints.
    * The filter will work with mass dismantle mode.
  * Jetpacks will now be able to use different kinds of fuel. The accepted types are: Solid Biofuel, Liquid Biofuel, Turbofuel and Fuel.[U8 11]
    * The Pioneer can set the preferred fuel type in the inventory.
    * If one type of fuel runs out, the jetpack will automatically switch to the next type.
    * The different fuel types will have different properties 
      * Fuel: minor tweaks, has more upwards momentum than in previous updates.
      * Solid Biofuel: same speed and power as normal fuel, less acceleration and burns quicker.
      * Turbo Fuel: higher acceleration and speed, better control.
      * Liquid Biofuel: burns slower.
  * Gas pillars are now destructible by Nobelisks.[U8 11]



## Progression

  * Tier 4 will get a new milestone called Expanded Power Infrastructure.[U8 10]
    * The new milestone will include the new Power Tower.[U8 10]
  * The Power Storage will be moved from Logistics mk3 to the new milestone.[U8 10]
  * The tier 6 milestone called Expanded Power Infrastructure will be renamed to Logistics mk4.[U8 10]



## Advanced Game Settings (AGS)

  * Flight mode, a flight mode AGS will be introduced.[U8 12]
    * Flight speed will not be tunable other than sprinting
  * God mode, God mode will make you immune to almost all types of damage. The only exception is the world border damage.[U8 12]
  * Give item button, clicking this button will allow you to pick an item and quantity to give to yourself.[U8 12]
    * There will be a checkbox allowing you to give you the inputted amount in stacks rather than individual items.
  * No build cost, this setting will remove the build cost when in build mode.[U8 12]
    * Dismantling buildings will also not give any items back.
  * No unlock cost, this setting will allow you to unlock any MAM research, HUB milestones, Space Elevator stages and AWESOME shop items without any cost.[U8 12]
    * A label saying ""no unlock cost" active" will replace the normal cost when unlocking items.
  * Unlock Alternative Recipe Instantly, this setting will unlock alternative recipes automatically as soon as all requirements for them are met.[U8 12]
  * No power, this setting will allow buildings to function without a connection to power.[U8 12]
    * Power generators will still continue running as long as their input requirements are met. 
      * Power Storages will be charged with the power generated by the running power generators.
      * Biomass burners won't consume fuel as they only work when there's a demand for power.
  * Set starting tier, this setting will only be available when creating a world.[U8 12]
    * It will be available under the AGS button in the world creation menu.
    * Free items matching the selected tier will be provided.
  * Set game phase, this option will allow setting the space elevator phase.[U8 12]
    * The setting will be available both in the world creation menu and ingame.
  * Unlock all[U8 12]
    * Unlock all tiers, this will unlock all hub milestones and space elevator phases.
    * Unlock all MAM research, this will unlock all MAM research branches.
    * Unlock all AWESOME shop items, this will unlock all items in the AWESOME shop.
  * Keep inventory, this setting has 3 options, the default will be keep equipment.[U8 12]
    * Keep nothing, pre-update 8 behaviour.
    * Keep equipment, drops all items in a box but keeps the equipment items in the inventory.
    * Keep everything, keeps all items upon death.
  * Disable arachnid creatures, removes all spiders(cats in arachnophobia mode) from the game.[U8 12]
  * AGS will have to be enabled upon world creation or upon loading a save.[U8 12]
    * Once enabled there's no way to disable it.
    * Sessions with AGS enabled saves in them will have a pencil icons in when browsing saves.
    * The text "Advanced Game Settings enabled" will appear next to the date while browsing saves.
    * If AGS is enabled on a save, all players will have access to them. 
      * An icon will be shown next to the settings if they apply to all players in the session.



## UI

  * Creature hostility settings and arachnophobia mode have been moved to gameplay settings.[U8 12]



## References

  1. ↑ [YouTube - June 8th, 2023 Video - Update 8 Experimental Release Date](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zu0aY3UNhvU)
  2. ↑ [YouTube - November 10th, 2023 Video - Update 8 Release Date (Early Access Branch)](https://youtu.be/MfDPCzHzAJw)
  3. ↑ [YouTube - October 19th, 2021 Livestream - Q&A: When is Update 7 coming out?](https://youtu.be/tDRRFuKP4y0?t=41)
  4. ↑ [YouTube - December 13th, 2022 Livestream - Q&A: Are you thinking Q1 or Q2 for next Update?](https://youtu.be/4wfaweBjsqU)
  5. ↑ [YouTube - February 7th, 2023 - Q&A: Is there a release window for full release (1.0) ?](https://youtu.be/A8329yEox_A?t=58)
  6. ↑ [YouTube - January 17th, 2023 Livestream - Q&A: On a scale of 1-100, where do you estimate you are to 1.0? - Community FYI: 3 dates on the wiki for Update 8](https://youtu.be/Ur35T32d5kM?t=137)
  7. ↑ [Twitch - November 22nd 2022 Livestream - Q&A: When is Update 8 coming out?](https://clips.twitch.tv/AntsyShakingPistachioRitzMitz-EnlfG5PK_9FNHR6C)
  8. ↑ [YouTube - November 22nd, 2022 Livestream - Q&A: Update 8, when?](https://youtu.be/ugS5beaw77Y)
  9. ↑ [Youtube - March 24th, 2023 - We're upgrading to UNREAL ENGINE 5](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dY__x2dq7Sk)
  10. ↑ 10.0 10.1 10.2 10.3 10.4 10.5 [Youtube - May 19th, 2023 Video - Update 8 will change the way you think about power](https://youtu.be/v4mbNy3gt7c)
  11. ↑ 11.0 11.1 11.2 11.3 11.4 11.5 11.6 11.7 [Youtube - May 26th, 2023 Video - Update 8 Quality Of Life Features will blow your MIND](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9jDBEpAlS2s)
  12. ↑ 12.00 12.01 12.02 12.03 12.04 12.05 12.06 12.07 12.08 12.09 12.10 12.11 12.12 12.13 [Youtube - June 9th, 2023 Video - More GAME MODE options are coming in Update 8](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T2lOiHtygVM)


  *[v]: View this template
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[h]: History of this template
  *[his]: his trivia section
